We are now publishing an event from inside of our listener.
And so I think it might be really nice to add in some kind of test just to make sure that this thing
is working as expected.
So I'm going to go and find my listener test file.
Here it is right here.
At the very bottom.
I'm going to add in another test and I'll give it a description of something like it publishes a ticket
updated event.
So then inside of here, as you'd guessed, once again, we probably want to make sure we go through
all that setup stuff, probably called the message or the on message function once again.
And then we'll figure out how to actually test and make sure that we publish an event from that point
on.
So first, we'll get our listener ticket data message from a weight set up.
Well then call our listener on message function.
And now we need to write out some kind of expectation right here.
So what kind of expectation are we going to write?
Well, this is where life gets just a little bit complicated.
And we really need to think about how all the different client properties, all this stuff is kind of
floating around inside of our application right now.
So inside of our setup function.
We had created an instance of our order, created listener, and we passed in Nat's wrapper client.
Nat's wrapper client is a mock member.
So inside of our root project directory for tickets or I should say inside the SRC folder, we've got
the box folder.
So this Nat's wrapper that we were referring to right here and specifically the client property is equal
to this Nat's wrapper thing right here.
So it's actually an object that has a single property of client and that has a single property of publish.
That is a just mock function.
So because this is a just mock function and we are passing this client through to our publisher, we
should be able to take a look at this mock function or specifically the published function on client
right there and make sure that it gets invoked.
That's the real goal because remember, when we pass off the client to the publisher internally, when
you and I call publish that publish method right there, that internally that is a method you and I
defined and internally inside of publish that thing is going to call the client's publish function.
So to make sure that we eventually publish an event, we can make sure that that's not wrapper.
Client mean that's wrapper, client publish gets invoked.
And we can also try to take a look at the different arguments that are provided to it and make sure
that it gets called with some appropriate looking event.
Let's just write out the expectation and I think you'll understand where this is going really quickly.
So back down at our test we're going to put in expect and that's repr.
That client publish to have been called.
Well, then save this and go back over to my running test suite.
And when you flip back over, you might see a couple of type errors inside of here.
There's typically something that says property client is private, blah, blah, blah.
So it turns out that just also does not always detect changes that are made to our NPM modules or our
dependencies.
So to get this stuff to go away, all we have to do is restart our test suite.
So we'll do a control c.
Start it back up.
And then after this runs one time, I am going to filter down to only running that listener test file
once again.
So to set up the filter, I'll type in a p then listener.
And there we go.
Just the listener test file.
And it looks like everything worked.
Okay.
To make sure this really is working as usual, I'm going to comment out the call to on message.
I'll save that back over.
And now we'll see that the published function was called at least one time.
Even though we had we expect it to be called one time, but it was not called at all.
So that means that our test is, in fact, working as expected.
Now if we want to.
We could also try to take a look at the arguments that are provided to the public function and make
sure that they actually make sense, make sure that we provide some kind of correct order ID and whatnot.
So let me show you how we would do that in this part.
Totally optional, but I just thought you might be kind of curious about how to go deeper into these
mock functions from just.
So I can do a console log of Nat's wrapper client dot publish dot mark.
I think it's dot calls and we are going to get a error from TypeScript right here because TypeScript
thinks that publish is just a normal function.
But you and I know very well that this is actually a just mock function.
So this is another location where we're going to tell TypeScript, hey, don't sweat it.
We have overwritten the definition of this Polish function.
It's actually a mock function.
So TypeScript, just go away for a little bit.
I'll save that.
And now we'll see the arguments that were provided to that Polish function.
We have an array.
This outer array represents all the different calls that have been passed to that Polish function or
all the invocations of it.
And then the inner array is a list of arguments that were actually provided.
So inside of here you'll see that we get the name of the event.
So that's you and I.
We are passing that name through as the second argument.
We've then got our JSON version of the event.
So notice that it's a really big string.
So it's JSON again.
And then the last argument is our callback function.
So to see why we're seeing all that stuff.
Just as a very quick reminder, if we go back over to our common module and take a look at our base
publisher.
So internally inside a publisher when we call publish recall that you and I are calling the client's
published function.
And for you and I in the test environment, this is a mock function we provide in the subject, the
JSON version of all of our data and then the callback function.
That is what we are seeing inside that console log right now.
So if you really wanted to make sure that this event that we are publishing was being published with
the correct data, like I said, we could take a look at this, our inner array, maybe make sure it
has the correct type of event.
Probably not super relevant.
What I would probably do personally is parse this string from JSON and just make sure that it's got
the correct ticket ID right there.
Maybe make sure that it has the correct order ID as well.
So to access that JSON string, we would come back to Nat's wrapper client publish box calls, and then
we would select the first element out of that big outer array.
So this is the first invocation of the mock function, and we'll take the second argument out of there.
Let's just console.log this run the test once again and make sure that we get that JSON string out.
I'll flip back over to my terminal.
Sure enough, there's the JSON string.
I know this looks like a normal object, but again it is JSON.
So if you want to access the properties inside of here, we have to parse this.
Then we can take a look at the order ID property or whatever else.
So now we understand how to actually access something inside of this mock object.
I want to show you some way that we can get rid of this ignore comment, some way that we can actually
tell TypeScript to understand that this really is a mock function.
The only reason I didn't mention how to do this earlier was just because understanding this mock calls
property can be a little bit challenging in its own right.
So to help TypeScript understand that this is a mocked function, I'm going to delete the comment.
I'm going to delete the outer console log.
I'll then put an opening parentheses at the start of the line.
And then a closing parentheses right after the word publish.
And then right after publish inside of the parentheses, I'm going to write out as just mock.
That's going to tell TypeScript that this is a mock function and let's give it going to then give us
access to all the different properties that a mock function has, such as well mock and the calls property
on there and a lot of other properties related to mock functions.
So again, this is how we can get TypeScript to play around nicely with mock functions.
Okay.
So this is going to give us our JSON string.
So we now want to parse that string and then presumably pull off the order ID property and make sure
that we emitted some event with the correct order ID.
So I'm going to do a JSON parse and wrap that entire line.
I'll then assign that to a variable that I will call ticket updated data.
So now we're going to write out an expectation that's going to take a look at the order ID property
on there and make sure that we gave the correct order ID.
So now the real question is how do we get the real order ID?
Remember inside of our setup function, we created that data object and the data object was meant to
simulate an order created event.
So the data objects ID property is the order ID.
So we're going to compare the data objects ID.
Against.
The ticket updated data's order ID property.
Let's just write out the expectation that we're going to do a expect data ID to equal ticket updated
data.
That order, I'd.
And that's it.
Let's now save this.
Run our tests again and it looks like it's working as usual.
I'll make it fail just once.
So I'll save this.
Yep.
It fails, which means the test is probably working as we expect.
So that's it.
We are now reasonably assured that whenever we receive an order created event events, we then somehow
update the relevant ticket and then publish an event describing the fact that the ticket was updated.
And as I mentioned a little bit ago, what you see inside this file is a perfect example of how we cannot
receive an event, listen for an event, receive it, process it, and then in the same turn or essentially
that same kind of line of processing, also publish a event as well.
So this is a pretty good example right here.
Okay.
Let's take a pause here and continue in just a minute.